Case ID Number: 12345A
Notice Date: January 29, 2020
Program: Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)


State Department of Human Services
123 Main Street 
Hometown, ST 12345-6789

Notice of Eligibility

You Are Eligible for SNAP Benefits

Dear Mallard,

You applied for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits on January 12, 2020. This letter is to let you know that we made a decision regarding your application. 

What is our decision? 

We have approved your request for SNAP benefits for the months of January 2020 through June 2020. This means that you will get monthly SNAP benefits during this period unless your situation changes. At the end of this period, we will contact you to reapply if you wish to continue to receive SNAP benefits. 

How much will your benefits be?

Your SNAP benefits will be as follows:

- For the month of January, your household will receive $212. 
- For the months of February through June, your household will receive $353 each month. 

Please note that if you applied after the first day of the month, your first month of benefits is a partial benefit. 

When will you get your benefits?

If you do not already have one, you will get an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card in the mail in the next few days. EBT cards look like a debit or credit card. You use it to pay for groceries. Your EBT card will come with instructions about how to use it, how to set a personal identification number (PIN), and how to check the balance. 

If you already have an EBT card, you can continue to use that card and PIN. If you have an EBT card and cannot find it, call EBT Customer Service at 1-800-555-5555 to request a replacement.
Your first month’s SNAP benefits will be available immediately. We will put new SNAP benefits on your card on the 7th day of each month.

What else do you need to know?
- If the amount of money that comes into your household goes above $1,832 in a month, you must contact us within 10 days. 
- If someone in your household is required by SNAP to work at least half time (20 hours/week) and works less than 80 hours in a month, you must contact us within 10 days of the end of that month. 
- If someone in your household wins $3,500 or more from the lottery or gambling, contact us within 10 days. 
- If you do not tell us about a change you are required to report, and you get SNAP benefits you should not have received, you will have to pay those benefits back. 
- You may also contact us about any other changes that might impact your eligibility or benefits.
- You have the right to ask us to do a formal review of our decision. We call this a fair hearing. Read the section on “Your Right to a Fair Hearing” that follows. 

What if you need more help?

If you have questions or need more information, please call us at 1-800-123-4567, Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m.–7:30 p.m. You may also visit our website (www.dhs.st.gov) for more information.

Sincerely,

State Department of Human Services
1-800-123-4567 
www.dhs.st.gov

Please read on to find out more about your rights and responsibilities.
For notices in large print or another format, please call our helpline at 1-800-123-4567 or TDD 1-800-456-7890.
For notices in large print or another format, please call our helpline at 1-800-123-4567 or TDD 1-800-456-7890.

Your Right to a Fair Hearing

What is a fair hearing? 

If you disagree with a decision made on your SNAP application or case, you have the right to request a fair hearing. A fair hearing means that an official will review the facts of your case in a fair and objective manner as required by law.
 
In what situations can you ask for a fair hearing? 

You may ask for a fair hearing if any of the following apply to you: 

- You applied for SNAP benefits and were denied. 
- You disagree with a decision on your case. 
- You believe your SNAP benefits were not calculated correctly. 

When is the deadline to request a fair hearing? 

- If you want a fair hearing because we closed your SNAP case or denied your request for SNAP benefits, you must request it by [enter date 90 days from decision date].
- If you want a fair hearing about your current SNAP benefits, you may request a fair hearing any time before [enter certification period end date]. 
- If you request a hearing because we closed your case or decreased your SNAP benefits, you may choose to keep getting your benefits until a hearing decision is made. You may choose to continue receiving SNAP benefits only if your certification period has not ended. If you choose to do this, you may have to pay those SNAP benefits back if you lose the fair hearing. To continue your SNAP benefits, you must request a fair hearing by February 12th, 2020.

How do you ask for a fair hearing? 

To request a fair hearing: 

- Call: 1-800-123-4567
- Visit: www.dhs.st.gov/request-a-hearing


Can you get free legal help? 

You may be able to get free legal help from [State Legal Aid Name] by calling 555-555-5555 or visiting www.statelegalaid.org for more information.
USDA Nondiscrimination Statement

In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, sex, religious creed, disability, age, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA. 
Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g. Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.), should contact the Agency (State or local) where they applied for benefits. Individuals who are deaf, hard of hearing or have speech disabilities may contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be made available in languages other than English. 
To file a program complaint of discrimination, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, (AD-3027) found online at: http://www.ascr.usda.gov/complaint_filing_cust.html, and at any USDA office, or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:

- mail:	U.S. Department of Agriculture
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights 
1400 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20250-9410;
- fax: 	(202) 690-7442; or
- email: 	program.intake@usda.gov

This institution is an equal opportunity provider.